content/posts/episode-2.md, before:

---
title: "Episode 2 - Open Telemetry"
date: 2023-05-24T18:00:28+02:00
img: "episode-2.jpg"
---

In the previous episode, we delved deep into the intricate and important topic of Observability.

Now, in this episode, we'll be shifting our focus to a specific tool that can boost your organization's Observability capabilities – OpenTelemetry.

<!--more-->

 We dissected the concept, exploring how it is key to comprehending your software's internal states based on the outputs it produces. In that exciting exploration, we analyzed how having an understanding of the inner workings of your systems can greatly enhance the overall performance and efficiency of your operations.

OpenTelemetry is an open-source project that aims to provide a single set of APIs, libraries, agents, and instrumentation resources to capture distributed traces and metrics from your application. It simplifies the capturing of observability data, helping businesses to better understand the performance and health of their software applications.

In the world of software, efficiency and timely delivery are key, and that is where OpenTelemetry comes into play. This project can greatly reduce the time and effort spent on debugging and troubleshooting, by providing insights into your application's behavior and identifying potential performance bottlenecks. Not only can it help save precious time, but it can also reduce costs associated with system downtime and enhance the overall user experience.

One of the main strengths of OpenTelemetry lies in its ability to create uniformity across diverse software systems. It achieves this by providing a single set of APIs and standards for collecting telemetry data. This uniform approach makes it easier for developers and operations teams to instrument their applications once and gather diagnostic data consistently, regardless of the platform, language, or location of their services.

Moreover, this standardization can significantly reduce the risks of vendor lock-in. Traditionally, organizations might find themselves tied to a specific observability tool because switching costs—both in terms of finances and operations—are too high. This is where OpenTelemetry shines. It enables developers to decouple the instrumentation of their applications from the backend observability solutions. As a result, organizations can freely choose between different analysis tools and switch vendors as they see fit, without the need to modify the telemetry data collection in their services. In essence, OpenTelemetry promotes flexibility and fosters a healthy competitive environment among vendors, leading to more innovative and customer-friendly solutions.


  OpenTelemetry is a collection of tools, APIs, and SDKs. Use it to instrument, generate, collect, and export telemetry data (metrics, logs, and traces) to help you analyze your software’s performance and behavior.
  https://opentelemetry.io/ 

We referenced a couple of articles during this episode.
One was the recent news about Coinbase monitoring bill: https://thenewstack.io/datadogs-65m-bill-and-why-developers-should-care/
The second was our take on FinOps: https://www.nearform.com/blog/is-finops-really-about-saving-money/

# This is the Everything Delivery podcast

In this podcast we will discuss anything and everything that helps deliver value to clients while maintaining a healthy and happy Organization.

You can find this podcast on:
Spotify: https://open.spotify.com/show/0hDIMNruStpK9aE9eHC7NZ
Apple podcast: https://podcasts.apple.com/it/podcast/everything-delivery/id1680879029?l=en

Commit message:

Feature/new theme (#4)
* Fix youtube iframes

* beatifulhugo

* beautifulhugo

* Update submodule

* Remove theme

* Add submodule back

* Disable HLJS

* Enable selfhosted

* point to branch

* Submodules deinit

* update submodule

* Set url back to everything.delivery

---------

Co-authored-by: Luca Lanziani <luca.lanziani@nearform.com>

content/posts/episode-2.md, after:

---
title: "Episode 2 - Open Telemetry"
date: 2023-05-24T18:00:28+02:00
img: "episode-2.jpg"
image: "/imgs/episode-2.jpg"
youtube: "nelk5xdO39Y"
---

In the previous episode, we delved deep into the intricate and important topic of Observability.

Now, in this episode, we'll be shifting our focus to a specific tool that can boost your organization's Observability capabilities – OpenTelemetry.

<!--more-->

We dissected the concept, exploring how it is key to comprehending your software's internal states based on the outputs it produces. In that exciting exploration, we analyzed how having an understanding of the inner workings of your systems can greatly enhance the overall performance and efficiency of your operations.

OpenTelemetry is an open-source project that aims to provide a single set of APIs, libraries, agents, and instrumentation resources to capture distributed traces and metrics from your application. It simplifies the capturing of observability data, helping businesses to better understand the performance and health of their software applications.

In the world of software, efficiency and timely delivery are key, and that is where OpenTelemetry comes into play. This project can greatly reduce the time and effort spent on debugging and troubleshooting, by providing insights into your application's behavior and identifying potential performance bottlenecks. Not only can it help save precious time, but it can also reduce costs associated with system downtime and enhance the overall user experience.

One of the main strengths of OpenTelemetry lies in its ability to create uniformity across diverse software systems. It achieves this by providing a single set of APIs and standards for collecting telemetry data. This uniform approach makes it easier for developers and operations teams to instrument their applications once and gather diagnostic data consistently, regardless of the platform, language, or location of their services.

Moreover, this standardization can significantly reduce the risks of vendor lock-in. Traditionally, organizations might find themselves tied to a specific observability tool because switching costs—both in terms of finances and operations—are too high. This is where OpenTelemetry shines. It enables developers to decouple the instrumentation of their applications from the backend observability solutions. As a result, organizations can freely choose between different analysis tools and switch vendors as they see fit, without the need to modify the telemetry data collection in their services. In essence, OpenTelemetry promotes flexibility and fosters a healthy competitive environment among vendors, leading to more innovative and customer-friendly solutions.


  OpenTelemetry is a collection of tools, APIs, and SDKs. Use it to instrument, generate, collect, and export telemetry data (metrics, logs, and traces) to help you analyze your software’s performance and behavior.
  https://opentelemetry.io/ 

We referenced a couple of articles during this episode.
One was the recent news about Coinbase monitoring bill: https://thenewstack.io/datadogs-65m-bill-and-why-developers-should-care/
The second was our take on FinOps: https://www.nearform.com/blog/is-finops-really-about-saving-money/

# This is the Everything Delivery podcast

In this podcast we will discuss anything and everything that helps deliver value to clients while maintaining a healthy and happy Organization.

You can find this podcast on:
Spotify: https://open.spotify.com/show/0hDIMNruStpK9aE9eHC7NZ
Apple podcast: https://podcasts.apple.com/it/podcast/everything-delivery/id1680879029?l=en
